hyenas weighing in at up to 80 kilograms
and capable of running at speeds of up
to 60 kilometers per hour the Heiner is
in fact Africa's most successful
predator
often depicted as stupid cowardly in
greedy they have a bad public image but
we're going to debunk the myths
surrounding these misunderstood animals
and explore some of the more positive
character traits of the spotted hyena do
females always lead their clan and what
is it about hyenas that has allowed them
to thrive
[Music]
far from their dim-witted infamous
animated portrayal spotted hyenas are in
fact highly intelligent animals this is
partly thanks to having evolved an
extraordinarily intricate social
structure more similar in many ways to
primates than carnivores like primates
they can solve puzzles and the even be
chimpanzees and some problems living
tests unusual amongst mammals the female
spotted hyenas are larger than the males
and unlike other carnivores they form
large groups or clans where the females
are top of the pecking order these
groups can be up to 100 strong and like
a monarchy when the alpha female dies
her daughter will take the crown with
her daughters in turn inheriting the
position below her hyenas not only
recognize rank and social standing but
they can identify family members as
distant as their great aunts helping
them form alliances within the clan in a
way that is more typically seen in the
most intelligent of animals lovingly
nursing and breastfeeding their young
for one to two years devoted mother
hyenas also spend several hours playing
and wrestling with their pups each day
this kind of long term bonding is again
more often found in primate society that
amongst carnivores everyone knows that
hyenas may scavenge their meals but in
fact they are also fearsome predators
when hunting as a pack they can take
down animals as big as a buffalo or even
baby elephants
a mod I won't pass up the opportunity
for an easy meal contrary to popular
belief a hyena is more likely to have
its prey stolen by a lion than the other
way round
hyenas are formidable beasts built for
strength and endurance their incredibly
muscular jaws are even more powerful
than a grizzly bears and with highly
concentrated stomach acid hyenas can eat
and digest entire carcasses crushing and
swallowing bones up to 7 centimeters
thick quickly recycling nutrients back
into the environment this ability to
both hunt scavenge and consume the parts
of a carcass that other animals leave
behind has made them a highly successful
species loving devoted and intelligent
animals with a strong sense of family
perhaps it's time we update our outdated
perception of the humble hyena
[Music]